Themes 


Divi Overview
Divi is the flagship theme from Elegant Themes — one of the most popular WordPress theme providers in the business.
Released in 2013, Divi has been continuously improved and updated by its creators, going from strength to strength with each new version.

KEY FEATURES OF DIVI

Thanks to a continuously growing feature set and constant improvements, Divi can now be used to create just about any type of website you like.
 No matter how big or small your project, using Divi isn’t overkill, nor will it leave you wanting more.

DIVI DRAG-AND-DROP PAGE BUILDER

The core feature of this theme is the Divi Builder — a drag-and-drop page builder tool designed to help users create their own custom page layouts with ease.


With Divi Builder, you can create custom layouts for both posts and pages using an intuitive back-end user interface. 
Your layouts can include multiple rows, and each row can contain multiple columns. 
These layouts can then be populated with 46 useful content modules.
As well as fairly standard content modules, such as text, images, buttons, and galleries, you’ll find a powerful selection of features — ones that’d usually require you to install additional plugins to use. 
Such modules include pricing tables, sliders, testimonials, portfolios, and much more.


Furthermore, all of the Divi Builder modules can be personalized through the WordPress Customizer interface — so you can ensure each element on your website works with your overall design. 
You’re also free to add your own custom CSS to personalize your layouts and the elements they contain.
What’s more, thanks to the live preview feature of the Customizer, you can see what effect your changes are having on these modules instantly.

It’s worth noting that Divi Builder is now also available as a standalone WordPress plugin that can be used alongside any theme. 
For more info, have a quick read of our Divi Builder plugin review.





PRE-BUILT LAYOUTS AND TEMPLATES


Divi Builder also includes a growing collection of more than 20 pre-built layouts — including a wide range of useful page templates that may well save you a huge amount of time when you’re creating your site.

Each of these pre-built layouts can, of course, be edited via the aforementioned Divi Builder, giving you plenty of control over how your website will look.
 Once you’ve done your customizations, you’ll be able to save your own layouts for repeat/future use.

Divi also includes a number of portfolio layouts for creating either your portfolio website homepage or the internal portfolio pages of your site.

DIVI LEADS SPLIT TESTING TOOL


A new feature that was added in version 2.7 is the Divi Leads split testing tool. 
This powerful optimization tool makes it very easy to create multiple variations of your page elements — such as buttons,
 images, or call-to-actions — and then display them to different segments of your audience. The purpose of this is to find out which version produces the best results.


THEME OPTIONS


Through the Divi theme options panel, you can make a wide range of changes to your website. 
This covers social media integration, the number of posts to display at a time and how to present them, navigation and menu settings, and advertisement management.

However, when it comes to really personalizing how your website looks, most of the relevant theme options are found through the intuitive WordPress Customizer tool.

Through this interface, you can customize the layout settings, typography choices, header properties, footer elements, button styles, color schemes, and much more.

Again, as this all takes places through the Customizer, you get a live preview of your changes as you make them.


Avada Overview

KEY FEATURES OF AVADA

Like Divi, Avada is a true multipurpose theme that can be used to create just about any type of website. 
Whether you need an online portfolio, a site for your offline business, or a busy content-rich news site, Avada aims to provide you with everything you could possibility need.


PRE-BUILT DEMO WEBSITES

One of the key reasons why Avada is suitable for almost any type of WordPress 
website is that you get access to a large selection of pre-built demo websites that can be applied to your WordPress site in just a few clicks.



FUSION BUILDER

To help you edit any of the included demos and layouts, or create your own from scratch, Avada features the Fusion Builder:
 A custom drag-and-drop page builder tool for WordPress.

As with the Divi Builder, work done using the Fusion Builder takes place on the back-end of your WordPress website. 
Through the user interface, you can create layouts of rows and columns, and then populate them with the available Builder Elements.

These Builder Elements allow you to add buttons, pricing tables, sliders, testimonials, and products from your online store to your custom layouts.


PRE-BUILT PAGE LAYOUTS

The Fusion Builder comes with a good selection of pre-built templates, and you can either use them as they are or edit them through the drag-and-drop interface.
With Fusion Builder, you’re also free to save your own custom layouts for reuse within your website.

FUSION SHORTCODES

Many of the elements that can be inserted into your Fusion Builder layouts are also available when using the standard WordPress post and page editors. 
This is thanks to the handy Avada shortcode (What are Shortcodes?) library.


With the Fusion Shortcodes feature of Avada, you can select an element you’d like to add to your content, and then customize how it will look and function. 
Some of the shortcode options include customizable alerts, countdown timers, maps, recent post lists, videos, and much more.



THEME OPTIONS


Through the Avada 4.0 theme options control panel, you can modify almost every aspect of your website. 
This includes changing the layout, customizing the menu sizing, choosing a color scheme, selecting a header layout — and a whole lot more.




Divi vs Avada: Core Features Compared


Both themes look great. Each of the predefined layouts of Divi is of a very high standard,
 and the pre-built demo websites of Avada are highly professional in their appearance as well.
Overall, Avada offers more variety, with 18 different demo versions that you can import to your site in just a few clicks. However, 
with either theme you’re not limited in any way to just the pre-built options, thanks to the easy-to-use drag-and-drop page builders.


Divi vs Avada: Page Builders

Both themes allow you to create custom layouts for your posts and pages through a back-end drag-and-drop interface. 
By using sections, rows, and columns, you can build custom layouts and then insert the available elements.

While both page builders sound similar, the Divi Builder is the more polished of the two. 
Its user interface is nicer to look at and has some additional features that make it much easier to use. 
This includes a preview mode, which gives you an easy way to see how the modules in your layouts will look to your visitors.


Divi Builder also gives you the option of saving any modules you’ve customized to your library for reuse elsewhere on your site or on other projects. 
You can also create global library items — when these are updated, the changes are applied to each instance of that item, no matter where it’s located on your website.


With Divi, you also have the option of using the selective sync feature to only apply certain changes to all instances of a module.
 This could mean only applying the custom CSS and advanced design setting changes, leaving the other properties of the module intact.

The Fusion Builder is fine for creating custom page layouts in WordPress — however,
 the Divi Builder includes many more advanced tools and features that’ll appeal to those who really want to build custom layouts for their website, 
as well as speed up their workflow and make it more efficient.






